python/matching-brackets: new mentoring notes (#2175)
exercism/website-copy: tracks/python/exercises/matching-brackets/mentoring.md

# Mentoring

## Problem and Challenges

The problem asks you verify that all brackets in a string are properly paired and nested.

## Reasonable Solution

```python
def is_paired(input_string):
    unmatched = []
    matching = {")": "(", "]": "[", "}": "{"}
    for character in input_string:
        if character in matching.values():
            # Push a new context
            unmatched.append(character)
        if character in matching:
            if not unmatched:
                return False
            # Peek at the current context
            if unmatched[-1] == matching[character]:
                # Pop a context
                unmatched.pop()
            else:

>                 return False

Reviewer: Why is the peak necessary? 
```
if unmatched.pop() != matching[character]:
    return False
```
Short circuit evaluation could also be used here, though that might be pushing it for an 'easy' task?
```
if not unmatched or unmatched.pop() != matching[character]:
          return False
```

Author: Peaking isn't *necessary*. But it's a good solution.

Conceptually:
1. a pop occurs when a match is found. If there's no match, the value should not be popped. This allows, say, the remaining stack to be accurately printed or whatnot.
2. this exercise is all about using a stack and peak is part of the standard stack operations.

Reviewer: Okay, makes sense!

    return not unmatched
```

## Talking Points

### Maintaining Context

> The key to solving this problem is recognizing that the solution is all about maintaining contexts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The key to solving this problem is recognizing that the solution is all about _maintaining context_.
```

When processing an open bracket, the context changes to that bracket type, adding a new context.

> Prior open brackets need to be preserved, but we do not need to access them until the new context is closed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Prior open brackets need to be preserved, but do not need to be accessed until the current context is closed.
```

> When deciding is a given close bracket is valid, the current context is all that is needed - what the last open bracket was.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When deciding if a given close bracket is valid, the current context (the last known open bracket) is all that is needed.
```

If the current context matches the close bracket, the context is closed.

> If the current context does not match, the close bracket is invalid.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the current context does **not** match, the close bracket is invalid.
```

> A stack provides a method for maintaining context: `stack.push()` to add a new context; `stack.pop()` to remove a context; and `stack.peek()` to check the current context.
> Lastly, `len(stack)` is needed to check if there is any remaining context once the string is finished.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A stack provides a method for maintaining context: 
- `stack.push()` to add a new context.
- `stack.pop()` to remove a context.
- `stack.peek()` to check the current context.
- Lastly, `len(stack)` to check if there is any remaining context once the string is finished.

```

> Python's list is a superset of a stack, with it's `list.append()`, `list.pop()`, `list[-1]`, and `len(list)`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Python's [list][list-python] data structure is a superset of a stack, with methods `list.append()`, `list.pop()`, `list[-1]` (_indexing_), and `len(list)`.
```

For the string `"[{()}]()[]"`, this is what the context looks like:

```
stack:      # initially empty
stack: [    # push("[")
stack: [{   # push("{")
stack: [{(  # push("(")
stack: [{   # pop(")")
stack: [    # pop("}")
stack:      # pop("]")
stack: (    # push("(")
stack:      # pop(")")
stack: [    # push("[")
stack:      # pop("]")
```

### Regular Expressions: Language Theory

> Note: This section is heavy on the theory and light on details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note:** This section is heavy on theory and light on implementation details.
```

The intent is to provide direction if one would like to delve deeper into this topic.

Regular expressions are often a go-to for parsing strings.

> However, regular expressions are a poor fit for this particular exercise.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, standard regular expressions are a poor fit for this particular exercise.
```

> Below is some theory which explains why it is a poor fit.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Below is some theory which explains the issue.
```

In formal language theory, computer science and linguistics, the Chomsky hierarchy [Chomsky hierarchy][chomsky-hierarchy] is a hierarchy of *formal grammars*.
A grammar is a tool used to describe a *language*, such as mathematical expressions, a programming language or an HTML document.

Regular expressions provide a way to describe a "[regular language][regular-language]".
Regular languages are [context free][context-free], which means they cannot maintain a current context or operate based on contexts.

> Languages which use a stack as called [context sensitive][context-sensitive] and *can* maintain a context.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Languages which use a stack are called [context sensitive][context-sensitive] languages and *can* maintain a context.
```

> Languages such as simple arithmetic expressions (e.g. `x = a + m * b`) are regular and can be matched using regular expressions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Simple arithmetic expressions (e.g. `x = a + m * b`) are considered regular languages and can be matched using regular expressions.
```

> Languages such as HTML - or bracket matching, require a context sensitive grammer and cannot be matched using regular expressions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, languages such as HTML - or bracket matching, require a context sensitive grammar and **cannot** be matched using regular expressions.
```
